you
now it came to pass when Isaac was old
and his eyes were so dim that he could
not see that he called Esau his older
son and said to him my son Here I am
behold now I am old I do not know the
day of my death
now therefore please take your weapons
your quiver and your bow and go out to
the field and hunt game for me and make
me savory foods such as I love and bring
it to me that I may eat that my soul may
bless you before I die now Rebekah was
listening when Isaac spoke to Esau his
son and he saw went to the field to hunt
game and to bring it so Rebecca spoke to
Jacob her son indeed I heard your father
speak - II saw your brother saying bring
me game and make savory food for me that
I may eat it and bless you in the
presence of the Lord before my death now
therefore my son obey my voice according
to what I command you go now to the
flock and bring me from there - choice
kids of the goats and I will make savory
food from them for your father such as
he loves then you shall take it to your
father that he may eat it and that he
may bless you before his death look II
saw my brother is a hairy man and I am a
smooth skinned man perhaps my father
will feel me and I shall seem to be a
deceiver to him and I shall bring a
curse on myself and not a blessing let
your curse be on me my son only obey my
voice and go get them for me and he went
and got them and brought them to his
mother
and his malonate savory food such as his
father loved then Rebecca took the
choice clothes of her eldest son Esau
which were with her in the house and put
them on Jacob her youngest son and she
put the skins of the kids of the goats
on his hands and on the smooth part of
his neck then she gave the savoury food
and the bread which she had prepared
into the hand of her son Jacob so he
went to his father and said My father
Here I am who are you my son Jacob said
to his father
I am Esau your firstborn I have done
just as you told me please arise sit and
eat of my game that your soul may bless
me how is it that you have found it so
quickly my son because the Lord your God
brought it to me please
come near that I may feel you my son
whether you are really my son Esau or
not
so Jacob went near to Isaac his father
and he felt him and said the voices
Jacob's voice but the hands are the
hands of Esau and he did not recognize
him because his hands were hairy like
his brother Esau s hands so he blessed
him then he said are you really my son
Esau I am bring it near to me and I will
eat of my son's game so that my soul may
bless you
so he brought it near to him and he ate
and he brought him wine and he drank
then his father Isaac said to him come
near now and kiss me my son and he came
near and kissed him and he smelled the
smell of his clothing and blessed him
surely the smell of my son is like the
smell of a field which the Lord has
blessed therefore may God give you of
the dew of heaven of the fatness of the
earth and plenty of grain and wine let
peoples serve you and nations bow down
to you be master over your brethren and
let your mother's sons bow down to you
cursed be everyone who curses you and
blessed be those who bless you now it
happened as soon as Isaac had finished
blessing Jacob and Jacob had scarcely
gone out from the presence of Isaac his
father that Esau his brother came in
from his hunting he also had made savory
food and brought it to his father
let my father arise and eat of his son's
game that your soul may bless me
who are you I am your son your firstborn
Issa then Isaac trembled exceedingly who
where is the one who hunted game and
brought it to me I ate all of it before
you came and I have blessed him and
indeed he shall be blessed when Esau
heard the words of his father he cried
with an exceedingly great and bitter cry
bless me me also o my father your
brother came with deceit he has taken
away your blessing is he not rightly
named Jacob for he has supplanted me
these two times he took away my
birthright and now look he has taken
away my blessing have you not reserved a
blessing for me indeed I have made him
your master and all his brother and I
have given to him as servants with grain
and wine I have sustained him what shall
I do now for you my son have you only
one blessing my father bless me me also
o my father and he saw lifted up his
voice and wept then Isaac his father
answered and said to him behold your
dwelling shall be of the fatness of the
earth and of the dew of heaven from
above by your sword you shall live and
you shall serve your brother then it
shall come to pass when you become
restless that you shall break his yoke
from your neck
so Esau hated Jacob because of the
blessing with which his father blessed
him and he saw said in his heart the
days of mourning for my father are at
hand then I will kill my brother Jacob
and the words of Esau her older son were
told to Rebekah so she sent and called
Jacob her younger son surely your
brother Esau comfort himself concerning
you by intending to kill you now
therefore my son obey my voice
arise flee to my brother Laban in hey
run and stay with him a few days until
your brother's Fury turns away until
your brother's anger turns away from you
and he forgets what you have done to him
then I will send and bring you from
there why should I be bereaved also view
both in one day and Rebekah said to
Isaac I am weary of my life because of
the daughters of Heth if Jacob takes a
wife of the daughters of Heth like these
who are the daughters of the land what
good will my life be to me
you